The Joe Rogan experience.
You wanna talk about fake meat? Sure. Yeah. A little bit.
Let's talk about it's covered as much in the film, but it's, I think.
It's important for someone like you that really understands it to talk about it.
So people get, this could be a standalone clip.
So just for people who know who, who aren't aware,
there are companies like impossible burger and beyond meat that are,
are promoting this idea of fake meat that tastes like meat. And,
but it's made typically from soy. So impossible burgers made ingredients or,
or GMO soy coconut oil, sunflower oil,
natural flavors beyond meat is P protein isolate, uh,
canola oil and refined coconut oil. Um,
so impossible burger is publicly criticized,
holistic land management or regenerative agriculture, and saying, ah,
it doesn't, it's not really that different. In fact,
sometimes the emissions can be even more than feedlot, um, beef,
but there was a third party life cycle analysis, full life cycle.
So looked that the whole process, not just methane emissions from cows burping,
but the whole process, um, at white Oak pastures,
which is a beef operation, it's a, it's a savory Institute hub.
So they're following this, the regenerative savory Institute practices,
and they found that their beef operation was a net carbon sink. So again,
it actually sequestered carbon from the atmosphere. It was not emitting carbon.
It was, uh, you know, carbon not, not neutral.
It was taking carbon out. Can.
I pause you for a second? Cause this is something I forgot to bring up earlier.
One, um,
thing that solves the methane issue with cows is just to add a certain amount
of seaweed to their diet. When you add a certain amount of seaweed to your,
to their diet, apparently it mitigates the methane, the methane issue. I.
I don't know about that. Yeah. But I think that see.
If we could find that Jamie that's, um, something that was, uh,
offered up as a response to, and I don't think it's a large amount of seaweed.
I think it's a fairly small amount of seaweed and percentage to the overall
diet.
I think the amazing thing about the regenerative,
the livestock or holistically manage beef though,
is it can actually restore grasslands. Yes, it can,
can restore the soil and improve the soil.
So you're not only producing this amazing nutrient dense bioavailable food
source.
You're actually improving the soil and helping to reverse this really dramatic
threatening problem that we're facing of soil erosion.
Seaweed could help make cows burp less methane and cut their carbon foot hoof
LOL diet supplemented with red algae could lessen the huge amounts of greenhouse
gases emitted by cows and cheap. If we can just figure out how to grow enough.
So, right. I guess that's.
The issue. Then you have to wonder where those, how that, you know, what,
what kind of energy is being used. So, so back to this, so this,
this life cycle analysis that white Oak pastures showed that, uh,
this holistically managed beef actually removes carbon from the atmosphere.
Now this was the same company that performed a lifecycle analysis for impossible
burger at, on their fake meat.
And what they found in that analysis was that the fake meat was, um, less,
you know, of a greenhouse gas emitter than, uh, feed lot beef,
but it was still actually an emitter.
Whereas the holistically managed beef was taking carbon out of the atmosphere.
It was the same company. So, you know, if we're gonna take,
give them credit for the, an analysis they did for impossible burger,
we have to give them credit for the analysis that they did for white Oak
pastures. Um, the other thing with impossible burgers.
So the primary ingredient is called soy leg hemoglobin or S SLH.
So this is a bioengineered protein additive that adds meat like taste and
color. It does not meet the basic FDA,
generally recognized as safe, the grass designation,
because it's not a food or even a food ingredient.
And there's a document that you can get.
I think it came with the freedom of information act. Uh, it's online.
I have the reference in my show notes and in the discussion in this document
with the FDA and possible foods and ended it up to a quarter of its team
ingredient was composed of 46, unexpected additional proteins,
some of which are unidentified and none of which were assessed for safety in a
dossier, impossible Berg put the product on the market,
despite admitting to the FDA privately that they haven't done adequate safety
testing. And according to these documents,
FDA believes that the arguments presented individually and collectively do not
establish the safety of S SLH soy leg hemoglobin for consumption,
nor do they point to a general recognition of safety.
So they don't know what the it does.
What's in it, but it, but doesn't mean it's bad. Doesn't mean it's bad.
Just haven't done adequate safety testing to,
in the opinion of the FDA to release this as a food product.
The company that did the tests on this, uh,
impossible burger versus the regenerative view, what is that company.
Again? Qantas international. And.
So is the one, they're the ones who released the information for both studies.
Both Stu it was the same company that did it for impossible burger.
And then they turned around and, and did it white Oak pastures,
and they found impossible. Burger is still emitting carbon,
whereas white Oak pastures is taking it out. Yeah, I think.
That's, that's a, a very, very critical, um, point to make in.
This conversation. And, and there's a great, there was an,
an article criticizing fake meat by this woman, Dana pearls, who's this,
you know, part of an environmental organization called friends of the or earth.
And she says,
instead of investing in risky new food technologies that are potential problems,
masquerading as solutions,
shouldn't we be investing in proven beneficial regenerative, agriculture,
and transparent organic food that consumers are actually demanding.
The only issue that they would have with this is yes,
but now you're talking about killing animals and we're absolutely more orally
and ethically opposed killing animals.
Yeah. I mean, we go back now to this,
this 2018 paper that I mentioned earlier that examined the impact of plant
agriculture on animal deaths and found 35 to 250 mouth deaths per acre,
mouse deaths, mouse, deaths, deaths of mice <laugh>.
And up to 7.3 billion animals killed every year from plant agriculture.
If you count birds killed by pesticides, fish deaths from fertilizer runoff,
plus reptiles and amphibians poisonings from eating toxic insects from the
pesticides.
What's the number <affirmative> 7.3 billion animals killed every year. So in.
Agriculture of life,
there's far more life taken by plant agriculture
than there is life taken by animal agriculture, even factory farming.
Oh yeah. We're not killing 7.3 billion cows, right? So.
The question of is, do we value the larger animals more? Are they.
You know, our fish and insects, less significant life forms than mammals?
Our small mammals like root rodents, less valuable than larger ones like cows,
is it better to kill many small animals for foods like grains and legumes,
which aren't very nutrient dense and don't meet our nutritional needs than fewer
large animals that are super nutrient dense. I mean,
I'm not claiming to answer these questions,
but I think there are questions that haven't been adequately raised and
addressed in this ethical argument.
They haven't even been breached.
And that this is one that people dismiss offhandedly. This is,
these are lies by meats to justify their, their consumption. Yeah.
But what you're saying is, and you know.
And you,
you could make an ethical argument that killing an animal explicitly to eat.
It is ethically different than animals being killed as a sort of
side effect of plant agriculture. I'm not saying that that's valid argument,
but I've, I've heard that.
Argument. I don't think it's a Val valid argument.
Cause once you're aware of it, you're doing it the same. It's like, uh,
the argument that I've had with people when they say that, uh,
I don't kill animals, but I eat meat.
Therefore it's better than what you do because I hunt and I say, no,
you're killing animal with your credit card seems backwards.
You're you're killing an animal. Yeah.
You just get hiring someone to do it for you.
You you'll still go to jail for murder. If you hire someone to shoot somebody.
Right. <affirmative> it's and.
You're more disconnected from the whole process.
Yeah. It's, it's even more bizarre. It's the whole thing is very, very strange.
Um, I think that's very important though, that you listed those, those numbers,
that data cuz that's irrefutable and it's one of those arguments that comes up
that they just wanna bury their hand head in the sand about if you're buying
agriculture, unless you have,
unless you have your own organic farm where you are a hundred percent
aware of every single aspect from seed to plucking and cooking.
If you're not, if you're buying from large scale agriculture,
you are part of the death machine, right.
That's right.
And you're also part of the environmental destruction machine because disease
huge in industrial scale,
mono cropping operations are incredibly harmful for the environment. And if,
you know, if you, if you, again, like you think of like P protein, you know,
that's an incredibly processed food. Like the amount of, uh,
you know, first of all, just growing peas at the scale,
you're gonna need to have the world's largest P protein company.
And then all of the processing that needs to happen from taking a P to a
isolated protein powder,
which involves fossil fuels and all kinds of industrial processes that is not an
environment environmentally friendly process. So, you know,
is that better for the planet than having cows that are,
you know, being raised on, in, on land that couldn't be used for, um,
growing plants or other crop production and rotating the,
the animals in a way that restores grasslands and improves the health of the
soil that actually sequesters and removes carbon from the atmosphere that
again like Dana pearls was saying makes a lot more sense.
It's a proven system than like scaling up industry to make more
powders. Mm.
Yeah.
Scaling up industry to make P powder and killing untold numbers of rodents.
In the pro or, you know, birds and destroying natural habitats.
Cause if you clear a field for peas, it's not,
doesn't have the normal natural features.
You don't have the habitat for those animals anymore.